# Grouping Topic Titles Trend Using The Single Linkage Method with Manhattan Distance Similarity
One of the requirements of graduation in Informatics engineering of Universitas Ahmad Dahlan (UAD) is to have completed the work of Practice (KP). KP is a mandatory course offered in semester 5 of the 2016 curriculum. The obstacle experienced by students who will take the KP course is difficulty finding the topic. So far the student reference in compiling the report is from asking the upper generation that the KP has finished. Students are not aware of publication of the title of previous KP reports on the TIF website. The title Data of the previous KP report published on the TIF website is also less up-to-date. Based on the problem, then make a program in this research to classify the Trend of KP topics that can provide benefits for TIF and students.

The methods used in this study were the Manhattan Distance Similarity and Single Linkage. Before entering the stage of Text Mining, it needs to be done designing such as database design and interface. Database design is used to determine the data that will be entered into the database and is used to support various system designs. Interface design includes the design of the menu structure and display design in the user view. Text Mining can group the KP headings into multiple groups. The stages of text mining are collecting data, text parsing, text filtering, calculate terms count, similarity, grouping and testing.

The result of this research is a program that can process the data of the title KP into a pattern group Trend topic KP. From 905 data obtained, 7 groups are formed, namely information systems, Multimedia, networking, WEB, entrepreneurship, internship and training. But the Purity Test results obtained a value of 0267 that's mean Manhattan Distance Similarity and Single Linkage are less suited to classify the KP title.

__Keywords:__ work title practice, manhattan distance, grouping, single linkage, text mining